2.-(1) Subject to subsection (3), every person to whom sec- Murder. 141 1992 tion 3(1A) applies or who is convicted of murder committed in s, 2. 
any of the following circumstances shall be sentenced in accordance with section 3(l)(a), that is to say-
	(a) any murder
		(i) committed by a person if, in the course or furtherance of, arising out of, or ancillary to, that murder, the person commits an offence referred to in subsection (1 A); or 
		(ii) committed by a person in the course or furtherance of, arising out of. or ancillary to, an offence referred to in subsection (1 A), whether or not the individual murdered was an individual that the offender intended to murder in committing the offence; 
	(b) the murder of- 
		(i) a member of the security forces acting in the execution of his duties or of a person assisting a member so acting; 
		(ii) a correctional officer acting in the execution of his duties or of a person assisting a correctional officer so acting; 
		(iii) a judicial officer acting in the execution of his duties; or 
		(iv) any person acting in the execution of his duties, being a person who, for the purpose of carrying out those duties, is vested under the provisions of any law in force for the time being with the same powers, authorities and privileges as are given by law to members of the Jamaica Constabulary Force, or the murder of any such member of the security forces, correctional officer, judicial officer or person for any reason directly attributable to the nature of his occupation; 
	(c) the murder of any person -for any reason directly attributable to- 
		(i) the status of that person as a witness or in a pending or concluded civil cause or matter or in any criminal proceedings; or 
		(ii) the service or past service of that person as a juror in any criminal trial;. 
	(d) the murder of a Justice of the Peace acting in the execution of his judicial functions; 
	(e) any murder committed pursuant to an arrangement whereby money or anything of value- 
		(i) passes or is intended to pass from one person to another or to a third party at the request or direction of that other persori; or 
		(ii) is promised by one person to another or to a third person at the request or direction of that other person, as consideration for that other person causing or assisting in causing the death of any person or counselling or procuring any person to do any act causing or assisting in causing that death; 
	(f) any murder committed by a person in the course or furtherance of an act involving the use of violence by that person which, by reason of its nature and extent, is calculated to create a state of fear in the public or any section of the public. 
(1A) For the purposes of subsection (l)(a), the offences 3m06 referred to in this subsection are- S.2(b). 
	(a) burglary or housebreaking; 
	(b) arson in relation to a dwelling house; 
	(c) robbery; or 
	(d) any sexual offence. 
(2) Subject to subsection (3), every person convicted of lnws 
murder other than a persons. 2(c). 
(a) convicted of murder in the circumstances specified in 
subsection (l)(a) to (f); or 
(b) to whom section 3(1A) applies, 
shall be sentenced in accordance with section 3(l)(b). 
(3) If in the case of any murder referred to in subsection lnws 
(1) (not being a murder referred to in paragraph (e) of that s. 2(c). 
subsection), two or more persons are convicted of tbat 
murder- 
(a) the provisions of section 3(l)(a) shall apply to any of 
those persons who- 
(i) by his own act caused the death of, or inflicted 
or attempted to inflict grievous bodily harm on, 
the person murdered; or 
(ii) himself used violence on that person in the 
course' or furtherance of an attack on that 
person; and 
pie inclusion of this page is authorired by LN. 80~t2008] 
OFFENCES AGANST THE PERSON 
(b) any other persons convicted of the murder shall be 
sentenced in accordance with section 3(l)(b). 
(4) [Deleted by Act I of 2005.1 
(5) In this section- 
"correctional officer" has the same meaning as in the 
Corrections Act; 
"judicial officer" means- 
(a) a Judge of the Supreme Court or the 
Court of Appeal, the Master in Chambers or any 
person for the time being performing the functions of a Judge of the Supreme Court or Court of 
Appeal or of the Master in Chambers; 
(b) the Registrar or Deputy Registrar of the Supreme 
Court, the Revenue Court or the Court of Appeal 
or any person for the time being performing the 
functions of Registrar or Deputy Registrar; 
(c) a Resident Magistrate or any person for the time 
being performing the functions of a Resident 
~a~iskate; 
(4 a person employed in a court's office who carries 
out prosecution of offences or in the Office of the 
Director of Public Prosecutions or engaged to 
carry out functions on behalf of the Director of 
Public Prosecutions; 
"member of the security forces" means a member of- 
(a) the Jamaica Constabulary Force; 
(b) the Jamaica Defence Force to the extent that such 
member has been assigned to act in aid of the 
Police; 
(c) the Island Special Constabulary Force; 
(4 the Rural Police. 
Sentence for 
murder. 3.-(1) Every person who is convicted of murder falling 
112005 withins. 3(a)(b). 
[The inclusion of this page istauthorizuJ by L.N. 80d20081 
OFFENCES AGAINST WE PERSON 
(a) section 2(l)(a) to V) or to whom subsection (1A) 
applies, shall be sentenced to death or to imprisonment for life; 
(b) section 2(2), shall be sentenced to imprisonment for 
life or such other term as the court considers 
appropriate, not being less than fifteen years. 
(1A) This subsection applies to a person who is convicted moos 
of murder and who, before that conviction, has been convicted S. 3(b). 
in Jamaica- 
(a) whether before or after the 14th October, 1992, of 
another murder done on a different occasion; or 
(b) of another murder done on the same occasion. 
(1B) Where a court pronounces a sentence of death m~s 
pursuant to subsection (l)(a)- s. 3(c). 
(a) the form of the sentence shall be to the effect only 
that the person is to "suffer death in the manner 
authorized by law"; 
(b) every person 'so sentenced shall, after sentence, be 
confined to some safe place within the correctional 
institution, apart from all other inmates; and 
(c) the sentence may be carried into execution as heretofore has been the practice. 
(1C) In the case of a person convicted of murder, the lnms 
following provisions shall have effect with regard to that s. 3(c). 
person's eligibility for parole, as if those provisions had been 
substituted for section 6(1) to (4).of the Parole Act- 
(a) where a court imposes a sentence of imprisonment for 
life pursuant to subsection (l)(a), the court shall 
specify a period, being not less than twenty years, 
which that person should serve before becoming 
eligible for parole; or 
(b) where, pursuant to subsection (l)(b), a court 
imposes- 
(i) a sentence of imprisonment for life, the court 
shall specify a period, being not less than 
fifteen years; or 
(ii) any other sentence of imprisonment, the court 
me inclusion of this page is authorized by LN. 8OdZM)8] 
OFFENCES AGAINST THE PERSON 
Sentence of death not to be passed on Pregnant woman. 
4211969 
3rd Sch. 
112005 
S. 3(d). 
Procedure 
where womw 
convicted of 
capital offence 
alleges she is 
pregnant. 
1 12005 
S. 3(e). 
shall specify a period, being not' less 
than ten years, 
which that person should serve before becoming eligible for 
parole. 
(ID) A person shall not be sentenced to death under this 
section by reason of a previous conviction for murder referred to 
in subsection (1A) unless- 
(a) at least seven days before the trial, notice is given to 
him that it is intended to prove the previous 
conviction; and 
(b) before he is sentenced, his previous conviction for 
murder is admitted by him or is found to be proven 
by the trial Judge. 
(1E) Before sentencing a person under subsection (I), 
the court shall hear submissions, representations and evidence, 
from the prosecution and the defence, in relation to the issue of 
the sentence to be passed. 
(2) Where a woman is convicted of murder falling 
within section 2(l)(a) to V) or to whom subsection (1A) applies 
is found in accordance with the provisions of this section to be 
pregnant, the sentence to be passed on her shall be any sentence 
of imprisonment that may be imposed under subsection (l)(b) 
instead of sentence of death. 
(3) Where a woman convicted of murder falling within 
section 2(l)(a) to V) or to whom subsection (1A) applies alleges 
that she is pregnant, or where the court before whom a woman is 
so convicted thinks fit so to order, the question whether or not 
the woman is pregnant shall, before sentence is passed on her, 
be determined by a jury. 
(4) Subject to the provisions of this subsection, the said 
jury shall be the trial jury, that is to say the jury to whom she 
was given in charge to be tried for the offence, and the members 
of the jury need not be re-sworn: 
Provided that- 
[The inclusion of chis page is authorid by LN. 80d2008] 
OFFENCES AGAINST THE PERSON 
(a) if any member of the trial jury, after the conviction, 
, dies or is discharged by the court as being through 
illness incapable of continuing to act or for any other 
cause, the inquiry as to whether or not the woman is 
pregnant shall proceed without him; and 
(b) where there is no trial jury, or where a jury have disagreed as to whether the woman is or is not pregnant, 
or have been discharged by the court without giving a 
verdict on that question, the jury shall be constituted 
as if to try whether or not she was fit to plead, and 
shall be sworn in such manner as the court may direct. 
(5) The question whether the woman is pregnant or not 
shall be determined by the jury on such evidence as may be laid 
before them either on the part of the woman or on the part of the 
Crown, and the jury shall find that the woman is not pregnant 
unless it is proved affirmatively to their satisfaction that she is 
pregnant. 
(6) Where on proceedings under this section the jury Wl%2 
find that the woman in question is not pregnant the woman may 
S. 35. 
appeal under the Judicature (Appellate Jurisdiction) Act, to the 
Court of Appeal and that Court, if satisfied that for any reason 
the finding should be set aside, shall quash the sentence passed 
on her and instead thereof pass on her any sentence of 42/1969 
imprisonment that may be imposed under subsection (l)(b): 3rd SC~. 
1/2005 Prokided that the operation of the provisions of this s.s(r). 
subsection shall be deemed to be coincident with the operation 
of the Judicature (Appellate Jurisdiction) Act. 
3A.-(1) On an indictment charging a person with murder bedu= 
=garding falling within section 2(1), he may be found not guilty of such 
murder but guilty of murder falling within section 2(2). charge. 
ID005 
(2) For the purpose of any appeal against conviction, s.4. 
murder falling within section 2(1) shall be treated as a distinct 
offence from murder falling within section 2(2). 
(3) Where on an appeal against a conviction of 
murder- 
[The inclusion of lhia pap is aIllhmiad by LN. 80d2008] 
OFFENCES AGAINST THE PERSON 
Provisions as to appeals in 
dation to 
repeated and 
multiple 
murders. 
14/1992 
.S. 4. 
(a) falling within section 2(l)(a) to 0; and 
(b) for which the appellant has been sentenced to death, 
the Court substitutes a verdict of guilty of murder falling within 
section 2(2), the Court shall nevertheless determine whether a 
sentence of death is the appropriate sentence by virtue of section 
3(1A) and shall confirm that sentence if it is so found to be 
appropriate. 
(4) Subject to the foregoing provisions of this section, 
murder falling within section 2(1) shall not be treated, for any 
purpose, as a different offence fi-om murder falling within 
section 2(2). 
3B. [Repealed by Act 1 of 2005. ] 
3C.-(1) Where a person is sentenced to death by virtue of 
subsection (IA) of section 3, he shall have the like right of 
appeal against the sentence as if the appeal were against a 
conviction involving sentence of death. 
(2) On any such appeal against sentence, the Court shall 
have the same powers as to allowing or dismissing the appeal as 
on an appeal against a conviction; and where the Court allows 
the appeal, and it appears to the Court that, having regard to the 
decision on the appeal, the sentence is not warranted in law, the 
Court shall quash the sentence and pass the appropriate sentence 
in substitution for it. 
(3) Where a person is sentenced to death under 
subsection (1A) of section 3 (which relates to more than one 
conviction for murder) and afterwards one of the convictions is 
set aside on appeal- 
(a) that person may apply to the Court of Appeal to set 
aside the sentence of death on the ground that it is no 
longer warranted in law having regard to the decision 
on appeal; and 
(b) whether or not an application is made under paragraph (a), the Registrar of the Court of Appeal shall 
notify the Court that the sentence is one which should 
be set aside on the ground referred to in that 
paragraph, 
[The inclusion of this page is aluhoripd by LN. 80d2008) 


OFFENCES AGAINST THE PERSON 9 
done by him in pursuance of the pact unless it is done 
while he has the settled intention of dying in pursuance of 
the pact. 
8. All persons who shall conspire, confederate, and Conspiring 
agree to murder any person, whether he be a subject of Her tocommit 
Majesty or not, and whosoever shall solicit, encourage, murder. 
persuade, or endeavour to persuade, or shall propose to 
any person to murder any other person, whether he be a 
subject of Her Majesty or not, shall be guilty of a 
misdemeanour, and being convicted thereof, shall be liable, 
to be imprisoned for a term not exceeding ten years, with 42/1969 
or without hard labour. 
or soliciting 
3rd Sch. 
9. Whosoever shall be convicted of manslaughter shall Manbe liable to be imprisoned for life, with or without hard 42/1969 
labour, or to pay such fine as the court shall award in 3rdSEh. 
addition to or without any such other discretionary punishment as aforesaid. 
daughter. 
10. No punishment or forfeiture shall be incurred by Excusable 
any person who shall kill aaother by misfortune, or in his homicide. 
own defence, or in any other manner without felony. 
1837, would have amounted to petit treason, shall be 
deemed to be murder only, and no greater offence; and 
all persons guilty in respect thereof, whether as principals 
or accessories, shall be dealt with, indicted, tried, and 
punished as principals and accessories in murder. 
11. Every offence which, before the fourth day of March, petit 
12. Where any person, being feloniously stricken, Provigion 
poisoned, or otherwise hurt upon the sea, or at any place artaincaaea 
out of this Island, shall die of such stroke, poisoning, or zeAF 
hurt in this Island, or being feloniously stricken, poisoned slaughter. 
or otherwise hurt at any place in this Island, shall die of 
for toal of 
me inclusion of this psge ia authorized by L.N. 480/1973] 
10 OFFENCES AGAINST THE PERSON 
such stroke, poisoning or hurt upon the sea, or at any 
place out of this Island, every offence committed in respect 
of any such case, whether the same shall amount to the 
offence of murder or manslaughter, or of being accessory 
to murder or manslaughter, may be dealt with, enquired 
of, tried, determined, and punished in the parish in which 
such death, stroke, poisoning, or hurt shall happen, in the 
same manner in all respects as if such offence had been 
wholly committed in that parish.
